Clone from: http://git.enyo.de/fw/dnslogger-forward.git

What does it do?
================

dnslogger-forward implements a sensor for the passive DNS replication
project.  A sensor forwards a subset of DNS traffic to a central
monitoring station for analysis.

The advantages of this C program over the Perl script that was
distributed previously are increased performance and UDP checksum
verification by the sensor.  (The Perl script happily forwards UDP
packets with incorrect checksums.)  Furthermore, the C version uses a
different protocol that optionally includes the authoritative name
server addresses, which allows a collector to gather additional
statistcs without endangering user privacy.  (See the manpage for
details.).

Keep in mind that dnslogger-forward is just a sensor.  For a working
passive DNS replication infrastructure, you also need the collector.

Requirements
============

  - an ANSI C compiler (GCC 3.3 works well)

  - GNU make

  - libpcap 0.8 (libpcap 0.7 should work, too)

  - access to some DNS traffic

  - some agreement with a DNS replication operator to submit data

Installation
============

(See below for installation instructions from the GIT sources.)

Compile the software using GNU make (on some systems, you have to
invoke "gmake" instead of "make"):

  $ ./configure
  $ make

Run the test suite:

  $ make test
  All tests passed.
  $ 

If there are any error messages, please send a bug report to
<dnslogger-bugs@lists.enyo.de>, including the error messages, your
operating system and version, your C compiler and version, and the
version of your system's libpcap library.

You may now run

  $ make install

to install dnslogger-forward to /usr/local/bin.  You can change this
directory by invoking ./configure with the --prefix option (the
default is --prefix=/usr/local).  However, dnslogger-forward does not
need any configuration files and can run from within the build
directory.

You should be aware that dnslogger-forward logs to syslog, using
facility LOG_DAEMON (if it is available).

Please note that the program may or may not compile with non-GNU
compilers.  Errors in this area will be corrected, as time permits.
Feel free to submit bug reports about such issue to
<dnslogger-bugs@lists.enyo.de>.

Installation from a GIT checkout
================================

The GIT repository is available at:

http://git.enyo.de/fw/dnslogger-forward.git

You can use the following git command to copy the most recent version to
the directory "dnslogger-forward" in the current directory.

  $ git clone http://git.enyo.de/fw/dnslogger-forward.git

The sources do not include the usual "configure" script, which has yet
to be generated using autoconf (2.61 was used using development).  In
order to invoke autoconf with the correct flags, you can use the
following command (in the "dnslogger-forward" directory):

  $ sh etc/autogen.sh
  You may now invoke "./configure" and "make".
  $ 

After this command, follow the steps given in the previous section.

Running dnslogger-forward
=========================

See the manpage (doc/dnslogger-forward.8) for details.

How to contribute
=================

Please contact Florian Weimer <fw@deneb.enyo.de> if you want to run
dnslogger-forward and contribute to the passive DNS replication
project.
